The President:
Hi, everybody.
This week, I welcomed President
Hamid Karzai to the White House
to discuss the way
ahead in Afghanistan.
And today, I want to update you
on how we will end this war,
bring our troops home,
and continue the work of
rebuilding America.
Over the past four years, thanks
to our brave men and women in
uniform, we've dealt
devastating blows to al Qaeda.
We've pushed the Taliban
out of their strongholds.
And our core objective -- the
reason we went to war in the
first place -- is
now within reach:
ensuring that al Qaeda can never
again use Afghanistan to launch
attacks against America.
The 33,000 additional forces
that I ordered to Afghanistan
served with honor; they
completed their mission, and --
as promised -- returned
home last fall.
This week, we agreed
that this spring,
Afghan forces will take the lead
for security across the entire
country, and our troops will
shift to a support role.
In the coming months, I'll
announce the next phase of
our drawdown.
And by the end of next year,
America's war in Afghanistan
will be over.
This progress has only been
possible because of the heroic
sacrifices of our
troops and diplomats,
alongside forces from
many other nations.
More than a half
million Americans --
military and civilian --
have served in Afghanistan.
Thousands have been wounded.
More than 2,000 have
given their lives.
This remains a very
difficult mission.
The work ahead will not be easy.
Our forces are
still in harm's way.
But make no mistake -- our
path is clear, and we are
moving forward.
Because after more
than a decade of war,
the nation we need to
rebuild is our own.
As we do, we have to care for
our troops and veterans who
fought in our name.
We have to grow our economy
and shrink our deficits.
Create new jobs and
boost family incomes.
We have to fix our
infrastructure and our
immigration system.
We have to protect our planet
from the destructive effects of
climate change -- and protect
our children from the horrors of
gun violence.
These, too, will be difficult
missions for America.
But they must be met.
And if we can summon just a
fraction of the determination of
our men and women in uniform,
I know we can meet them.
And I intend to work as hard as
I know how to make sure we do.
Thank you.